Let us all clasp our hands and recite the sacred
name of the Buddha:
Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni,
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni.
Today we will learn about the
Ten Supreme Practices for lay Buddhists.
Today we will learn three practices; the remaining
seven will be for
later retreats because the knowledge is too vast, dear fellow
practitioners. This story
originates from here. These Ten Supreme Practices
were the factors that helped the lay practitioner Anathapindika
overcome the pain during a
severe illness that left him bedridden, preventing him
from sitting up to converse
with Venerable Sariputta. The improvement or recovery from his
illness shows the close connection
between body and mind, according to the Buddha.
These Ten Supreme Practices were
developed and expanded upon by Venerable Sariputta, stemming
from the four Stream-Entry factors, or the four
conditions for attaining the fruit of Stream-Entry. Dear fellow
practitioners, even Anathapindika
had to suffer from a bedridden illness due to karmic causes, dear fellow practitioners.
Karma causes that illness, but
people overcome that illness,
remember that, dear fellow practitioners. Do we like it that way? We've
committed sins, and now we
have to see how to overcome it when we get sick.
We hear about the fruit of the Stream-Enterer stage,
do we like it or not? Yes, we do,
but there are conditions. There are 10 conditions
to attain the fruit of the Stream-Enterer stage,
whether you are a layperson or a monastic.
If you want to attain the fruit of the Stream-Enterer stage, you must overcome all of these, dear fellow practitioners. Yen, please continue reading. If you do not study to
develop and achieve the following 10 supreme practices, it will be
difficult to
achieve the Four Unchanging Faiths, which are four
kinds of faith that never change, meaning Unchanging, meaning
not perishable.
Supreme Faith, that is, faith in the Three Jewels, dear fellow practitioners. Everyone
thinks they believe in the Three Jewels,
but that is their
current thought, not the actual realization of
their faith in the Three Jewels.
The thoughts that lead us to
believe in the Three Jewels are those of a
king of the heavenly realm who wants to seek
blessings.  The ultimate question is:
to whom should one give alms and offerings to receive the most merit?
The Buddha said: Offering to the Three Jewels
brings immeasurable merit that never
diminishes, only increases.
We must understand this deeply to believe
in the merits of the Three Jewels. To
achieve faith in the Three Jewels,
we
must remember that offering to the Three Jewels
is the greatest merit, and that merit
never diminishes, only increases.
Therefore, some people ask: "
Since I started practicing Buddhism, why have I
encountered so many obstacles
or accumulated negative karma?"
This is because they lack faith in the Three
Jewels. The reason for this is that, dear fellow practitioners, that's why this question arises. I explained: "From the day you believe in the Three Jewels and make offerings to them, that's the
cause. The suffering comes from the consequences of past actions and wrong views. When you start practicing Buddhism, the consequences haven't yet manifested, and you don't understand that."  It will cause people to lose faith in the blessings of the
Three Jewels, dear fellow practitioners.
That's it. This is faith. A Buddhist who
has true faith in the Buddha, the
Dharma, and the Sangha—a foundation that is strong and
unshakeable, something that no monk, Brahmin, deity,
demon, or worldly person
can destroy—is called an Upasaka.
Having complete faith requires quick
effort to establish unwavering pure faith in the
Buddha, dear fellow practitioners. That is,
if we have faith in the Buddha, in the
Buddha, the enlightened one, and no one has greater
wisdom than the Buddha, dear fellow practitioners, do you
agree?
But then, at some point, I'll
tell you
this story: There was a Buddhist who had made offerings for many years
and practiced the Dharma for many years,
but there was a problem:
her prayers hadn't been
answered. One day, a friend brought a
feng shui master
to her house. The master said, "Your house is experiencing
many obstacles because you have to
place the incense burner for the Buddha higher than the
incense burner for the deities."  The angel
Ninh, the celestial being Ninh, must be placed
higher than the Buddha. Because the
Buddha came later, while heaven and earth came before. The celestial
beings belong to heaven, the celestial beings came
first, so we must worship the celestial beings higher. That's why we are
disturbed, dear fellow practitioners. That's why we are
disturbed. Yes, sometimes it's because of this world that
our prayers haven't been answered yet. We
lose faith quickly, dear fellow
practitioners. Very quickly if we don't
fulfill our hearts towards the Buddha.
To fulfill our hearts towards the Buddha
is like this, dear fellow practitioners: That is, on the
day we first learned about Buddhism,
we read the Buddha's teachings. How amazing! We
only knew that following the Buddha was
good, but we didn't know what the Tathagata, the
teacher of heaven and earth, was. At that time, we had
n't been taught about it, dear fellow practitioners. We
hadn't been taught about it because we were just beginners. When we first followed the
first Dharma center, we didn't know anything at
all, completely ignorant. We only knew that the
Buddha was the Buddha, that following the Buddha had
advantages, but we hadn't been taught anything about it.
But when we read the Buddha's teachings,
how amazing!  How did you come up with
this? So
how did you know? At that time,
Yen thought to herself, "If you
keep saying that Buddha doesn't exist,
then anyone who knows this
must be a Buddha." Yen thought exactly that way
and believed
in Buddha without wavering. She
read a part of a scripture, just a passage. Then she
said to herself, "Suppose there's no
Buddha, why is there a Buddha?" Then she
turned back and thought, "Yes, someone this skilled
must be called a Buddha." But at that time, she
didn't know if a Buddha was fully enlightened
or what kind of enlightenment they had. She only knew they were the
most skilled. At that time, she
only knew vaguely that Buddha was the
most skilled. But when she
read this, she realized they were indeed Buddhas because they were the
most skilled. So
now, dear fellow practitioners,
our task is to understand
that only Buddha knows the creation and destruction
of this universe. Only Buddha knows
why, simply by saying not to kill, one can
prolong life.
Only the Buddha knows this. My dear fellow
practitioners, do you agree? No one else could possibly
know this; only the Buddha knows. To
know this is truly the mark of a
Buddha. We must contemplate and believe
that the Buddha knows everything.
Therefore, in life, if we encounter
anything new, we should ask the Sangha, because the Sangha
will teach us the Buddha's teachings. The Buddha is
truly amazing; he knows everything. The Buddha is truly
wonderful. What we need is
in the Buddha's teachings, which is the Dharma, is
n't that right, my dear fellow practitioners? So,
believe in the Buddha, believe in the
Dharma, and believe in the Sangha. My dear fellow
practitioners, you must see the virtuous conduct of
our monks. I call our monks my
masters, and with their virtuous conduct,
we will believe that the
monks are those who completely renounce
worldly desires, seeking a life of
moderation and contentment to benefit the
world. That is what it means to believe in the Sangha, my dear fellow practitioners.
And the monks will be the ones who reach the
goal that the Buddha reached. The monks will help
us
in all aspects of life.
Life will be a field of merit for us to
offer and transform
our suffering; that is called increasing merit, dear fellow practitioners.
The sutra says this: Venerable Sariputta
diligently protected and prayed for Anathapindika.
What does "protecting and praying" mean, dear practitioners? Remember, "
protecting and praying" doesn't just mean the dead. "
Protecting" means helping; "practicing" means thinking and
generating thoughts. The great assembly understands this point. "Practicing" is
generating thoughts. For example, I am
now protecting and praying for you, dear fellow
practitioners, so that you can achieve
the thought of faith
in the Three Jewels. This is my ability to protect and pray for you, dear fellow
practitioners. Do you understand this point? It's
not just protecting and praying for the
dead. When we go to the dead, we
also protect them so that they can generate
pure thoughts, allowing them to be
reborn in a peaceful realm. That is called "protecting and assisting.
" Understand the meaning of "protecting and assisting" in the sutra
as follows: Elder, do not be
afraid. Why? Because if an ignorant and foolish person achieves
disbelief, when their body perishes and their life ends, they will go
straight to an evil place and be reborn in a lower realm.  Even in prison, the
wealthy man today has no
disbelief, only supreme faith. Because of
this supreme faith, the wealthy man will overcome pain and
suffering and experience boundless joy.
Or, because of this supreme faith, he will attain the fruit of the
Stream-Enterer or the Arhat fruit, since the wealthy man
has already attained the fruit of the Stream-Enterer.
Therefore, in times of difficulty and
illness, what should we contemplate? Contemplate
supreme faith, contemplate the Buddha, the
enlightened one; contemplate the Dharma, the teachings of the
Buddha. Whoever practices them
will be liberated from suffering; contemplate the Sangha, the
practices of the Sangha. Dear fellow practitioners, do you understand
this? When we are sick and suffering, whatever obstacles we
face, what should we contemplate?
Contemplate the Three Jewels, contemplate the virtues of the Three Jewels.
That is what a lay person must do, dear fellow practitioners.
So, during
meditation, we will contemplate the virtues of the Three Jewels. The
second contemplation is contemplating the Good Precepts. Good precepts are the precepts
we have received. The Five Precepts and the Eight Precepts are taught in the sutras.
Sariputta
taught the monk Anathapindika to read: "Wealthy man, do not be afraid.
Why? Because if you are an ordinary, ignorant person due to
evil precepts, then when..."  The body perishes and life ends,
leading directly to the evil realm of hell. But the
Elder has no evil precepts; he
only has good precepts. Through these good precepts, the
Elder eliminates pain and suffering
and experiences boundless bliss. Therefore,
we must contemplate the precepts,
and then we will return to
what we contemplate: the days we have observed the Eight Precepts.
Dear fellow practitioners, have you understood
this point? Yen, please read this part. Good precepts
are moral principles; remember,
our precepts are moral principles.
Buddhists, do you agree? They are called precepts,
but we call them the Five
Virtues. The first virtue is the virtue of compassion,
meaning not killing,
right? The second virtue is not stealing,
meaning respecting and respecting everyone,
not infringing on other people's property—
that is not stealing. Not committing adultery
means respecting the happiness of others,
right?
Not lying means respecting the
truth, respecting the truth and respecting the
righteous mind within our hearts. There are
two kinds of Dharma: the righteous Dharma and the evil Dharma.
We respect the righteous Dharma.
In our hearts, we respect the Good Mind. That's what a
Buddhist does. If we're not addicted to worldly pleasures, we
respect
our own wisdom and don't cause suffering to sentient beings. And if we observe the Eight Precepts, the
merit of observing the Eight Precepts is
immense, immeasurable merit, dear fellow
practitioners.
This merit helps us escape the three
realms. That's why it's called immeasurable merit, dear fellow
practitioners. The
most difficult thing for us Buddhists is our speech karma, dear fellow
practitioners. It's difficult if we can't think clearly; we'll quickly fall into the trap of speech karma.
So now, let's practice silence to give ourselves
time to look inward. Remember, so
we can control our speech karma. Speech karma is
very difficult; the ego
also manifests. Everything
enters through the mouth and also comes out
through the mouth. It's incredibly painful.
So we must strive to cultivate
a sincere heart, obedience, respect, and
gratitude to purify
our speech karma. Try hard; that's
called contemplating the Good Mind. Buddhists
sit in meditation.  Reflecting on one's precepts
and practicing this way of cultivating them:
Contemplating all actions within
one's current karmic connections—that is, within
one's present karmic connections—is the method Yen has always
practiced, is practicing, and
will continue to practice
forever. It means examining
one's current karmic connections, considering
who one is interacting with, what objects one is interacting with (the
Six Senses interacting with the Six Objects of Perception),
and within that, with the three principles of respect,
obedience, and gratitude, one should consider what one should do
in each karmic connection.
This karmic connection, this karmic connection, this karmic connection,
this karmic connection—one can control the
precepts because there is contemplation.
Is that method correct? It's the
only way; there's no second way
to control verbal karma.
Because when we contemplate
like that, we have already made
our minds correct according to the Dharma. All
phenomena arise from the mind; therefore, since
we have made our minds correct according to the Dharma, our speech
will be correct according to the Dharma, and our actions will be correct according to the
Dharma. Therefore, it is essential to
practice in the present moment.  Remember, we must live
in the
present, not in the past, and we
cannot live in the future. We must
live in the present moment, my
dear fellow practitioners. Those of you who haven't yet become monks or nuns
must be very diligent. Write down
the relationships, tasks, and
situations in which you interact with others, ensuring they align
with virtuous intentions, and these virtuous intentions must
correspond to the Dharma. Is it difficult, my
dear fellow practitioners? It's not difficult at all; it only
takes one, two, or three days to
complete. It takes two or three days to establish the
process, and then we just follow
that process. The important thing is that we
establish the process. My dear fellow
practitioners, that's the foundation. For example,
before I knew Buddhism, I
established a process for myself: Family
must have hierarchy. Parents must
never be
disrespectful, and you must never argue
with your siblings. You must not argue, but resolve conflicts; if something is
wrong,
resolve it, never argue. That means
you program yourself with
ethical standards in
those matters. Therefore, you establish these
ethical standards.  Now, adding another aspect is
ethical standards that are in accordance with the Dharma and the
sources of the Higher Mind. Respect,
obedience, and gratitude are the sources of the Higher Mind, dear fellow
practitioners. And we just
see it in our current actions; nothing else
arises.
For example, dear fellow practitioners, what work do you do at home?
What are your family relationships? You need to know what to
say and what
not to say, what is right and wrong according to the Dharma, and what is
wrong according to the Dharma. In reality, it
's just something we
program ourselves. In the Dharma hall, we should know what to
do, how to
treat those below us, how to
treat those above us, how to deal
with those below us who make mistakes, and how to treat those above us
when they don't
understand. It's simply a
bullet point that we think about and
complete in a day. The next time, we just assemble it and
do it—that is, we think about it and then
practice. Practice is what lasts. But
if we skip the thinking stage and the contemplation
stage, we fail. That means
not thinking at all, just doing whatever comes our way.  I was
acting recklessly,
and only then did I begin to think. That's karma, my esteemed fellow
practitioners. I didn't have any
awareness, I just remembered that at that moment I had already
reached that point, it was already the ego, what else could it be? My esteemed fellow
practitioners, do you see? If it's the ego, then
how can I achieve anything? My esteemed fellow practitioners, let me
reiterate the story my
master taught me.
That is, one day, a teacher came and I invited him. I
invited the teacher to go fight demons, and the
teacher stayed with my master. Then the
next day, I invited him again, meaning from the beginning, I invited my master, and my
master assigned the
teacher to go fight demons. The next day, I still
followed my habit and asked my master to go
fight demons again. My master was also following the Dharma,
but not entirely right. He only said, "
Please, Master, go, and
then you will go." Then the next day, I asked my master again, but my master said, "A
practitioner
likes this, but you have to give something else to be able to practice." So
where is the true Dharma?
True Dharma is saying, "Please, Master, go, and then
you can go," but that's not all. True Dharma is
telling yourself, "Please, Master, ask yourself, that's what I'm doing."  It was
n't correct according to the Dharma, dear fellow practitioners.
From that, Yen immediately understood a
teaching from her master and she meticulously defined all
her actions, distinguishing between
right and wrong, so that she could
act in a detailed and correct manner. She
only listened once and then implemented all
her actions without making any
mistakes, dear fellow practitioners. That's not even the
master teaching her; the master only
mentioned how to handle a situation, and
she immediately thought of all her actions.
That way, next time she wouldn't make mistakes,
she wouldn't make mistakes. Otherwise, she would make mistakes because of her ignorance, which is what
Yen just used as an example – the ego, dear fellow
practitioners. The
ego appears very quickly, and
we, as leaders, are the ones
most prone to this, aren't we, dear fellow practitioners?
Even when someone below sees
something happening, they might just leave and then come back later to
report to the head of the group, or to the father, not
bother reporting anything else, right, dear fellow practitioners?
Forgetting the boundaries because...  It's that I did
n't think beforehand; I
didn't know my duty. I didn't
mark out beforehand what was right and what was
n't in accordance with the law. Where will this cause and effect
lead? If you don't think beforehand, then
karma will lead you, right,
dear fellow practitioners? If you think beforehand, you don't
fear karma leading you. If you don't think beforehand, karma will definitely
lead you. Another thing is extensive learning. Just
now, it was about Supreme Faith and Goodness. The
third thing is extensive
learning. The Sutra teaches the
Elder not to fear. Why? Because if an ordinary,
ignorant person lacks extensive learning, when their
body perishes and their life ends, they will go straight to an evil
place and be born into hell. But the Elder
doesn't lack extensive learning; because of that extensive learning, the
Elder will eliminate pain and suffering
and experience boundless joy. Extensive learning
means listening to the Dharma, dear fellow
practitioners. Listening to Buddhist teachings and their meanings
to understand them is called extensive learning.
When we are in pain or suffering,
we remember to open the Dharma and listen
or recall a passage of the lecture and think about it. That's
when we are sick. And that's also
our cause. If there is impermanence, then we are easily reborn into something else.
The realization is the three dharmas,
and today we will focus on these three dharmas.
When we Buddhists
sit in meditation, we contemplate these
three dharmas. Do you understand this point, dear fellow practitioners?
Now that things have
calmed down, let's go back, dear fellow
practitioners. The sun is very strong now. Seeing you all going
up to the forest, freezing to death, so calm to
death, yet
not dying from suffering in the cycle of rebirth,
we are finding a way out. That is
happiness, isn't it?
We are so fortunate to be here to find a way out.
We Buddhists have only calmed down a
little, not even a tiny bit, not even a fingernail's worth of what the
monks practice, right? It's
nothing, because we don't have the environment, so
the karma hasn't manifested for us to
see. It needs an environment. It takes one
year, two years, three years, many years to
eliminate attachment to the body. Don't
think that just waking up at 4 a.m. will get
rid of attachment to the body. That's just the beginning, dear fellow
practitioners. It's a long-
term process.  I only just learned about illness, and only then did I
feel the pain and aches in my body. I'm
not going to practice anymore. Next time I
hear from the Executive Board that practicing for three days is too
tiring. Climbing there is
exhausting. Early in the morning, they make me grope my way, my
legs, arms, and knees aching. I'm going again, but I'm clinging to my
body, my dear fellow practitioners, right? Forget
about the auspicious circumstances of practice, it's too tiring. Is
there a wedding at home today? I'm not
going anymore, I'll stay home and have a meal.
This kind of practice is still called
dual practice of meditation and pure conduct. Whoever is reborn in the Western Pure Land,
this is also merit for
rebirth in the Western Pure Land because the three karmas are pure, and the
Buddha is
also reborn in the Western Pure Land. So, whatever we practice to purify the three karmas is merit for
rebirth in the Western Pure Land. We shouldn't misunderstand that rebirth in the Western Pure Land means we have to sit and recite the
Buddha's name. Do you
understand this point, dear fellow practitioners? If
we want to be reborn in the Western Pure Land,
we only need to make a
vow once in our lives.
Whatever merit we accumulate throughout our lives, we
dedicate to the Western Pure Land.  It only takes one attempt, my esteemed fellow
practitioners. It's not like you can be
reborn in the Western Pure Land every day. You have to
work every day to earn a living from your three karmic actions.
That's the task, and the other place is where we've already
deposited the card. Now we just
need to deposit money into the card. Is that
clear, dear fellow practitioners? Open the card, open the Western Pure Land card.
Now, whatever money you earn,
transfer it to that card. Throughout your life, you will
practice and dedicate your merits to rebirth in the Western Pure
Land. That's opening the card, dear fellow practitioners, is that clear?
Then, every day,
practice and dedicate your merits to the card, and that's it, dear fellow
practitioners. That's how you go when you
die. Just go like that.
That's how you cultivate, like a lotus flower
watering itself every day.
That's why in the
Pure Land Sutra it says that our lotus flower
is born and blossoms every day,
nurtured every day. If
we have pure merit, then we water the
lotus flower that day; if not,
then we won't water it the next day. That's how we cultivate, that's how we
water the lotus flower, the place where
we will sit later. That's
building a house in the Western Pure Land. And who
doesn't build a house in the Western Pure Land and still wants to
achieve perfect enlightenment?  The enlightenment here
means we are entering the supreme state of
perfect enlightenment, and the
supreme state of perfect teaching and enlightenment is also
in the Western Paradise. So, returning
to the supreme state of perfect
enlightenment is the best option, right? Just focus on the
supreme state of perfect enlightenment, and you
only need to open an account once. The only fear is that
someone might burn their account, meaning they
open an account and then go to a fortune teller the next day. Right at the
moment they go to the fortune teller, they
burn their account and have to open it again. Do you
understand this, my esteemed friends? Anyone who
takes refuge in the Three Jewels, I'm telling you, and then goes to a fortune teller again, checking the auspicious day and time, remember that you've lost your account again! Next time you have to open an account again, okay? Let's all clasp our hands and recite the Buddha's name:
Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni, Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni.
[Music]
[Applause]